# Zombie Apocalypse (mini-project)

My implemetation of Mini-project #5 - Cookie Clicker for course "[Principles of Computing (Part 2)](https://www.coursera.org/learn/principles-of-computing-2?specialization=computer-fundamentals)" by RICE University on Coursera.



### Overview (from course project description page)

In this mini-project, we will create a simulation of zombies and humans interacting on a grid. As in the movies, our zombies are hungry for human brains. As a result, zombies chase humans and humans flee from zombies. To keep our simulation manageable, the positions of the zombies and humans will be restricted to a grid. In our simulation, zombies are not very agile and can only move up, down, left or right in one step of the simulation. On the other hand, humans are more agile and can move in these four directions as well as the four neighboring diagonal directions. If a zombie catches a human by positioning itself in the same cell, the zombie enjoys some delicious human brains. Being a Computer Scientist, the human has plenty of brains to spare and continues to live on in our simulation ☺.

To enhance the realism of our simulation, some of the cells in this grid will be marked as impassable and restrict zombie/human movement so that they can not move through these cells. Our task in this simulation is to implement an <span style='color:red'>Apocalypse</span> class that encapsulates the core mechanisms of this simulation and that interacts with a GUI that we have created for visualizing the simulation in CodeSkulptor. This <span style='color:red'>Apocalypse</span> class is a sub-class of <span style='color:red'>Grid</span> and inherits the  class methods. Passable cells in the grid correspond to <span style='color:red'>EMPTY</span> cells while <span style='color:red'>FULL</span> cells are impassable. Humans and zombies can only inhabit passable cells of the grid. However, several humans and zombies may inhabit the same grid cell.

This <span style='color:red'>Apocalypse</span> class also includes two lists, one for zombies and one for humans. Note that the entries in each list are cell indices of the form <span style='color:red'>(row, col)</span> that represent the position of zombies/humans in the grid. Each step in the simulation will either update the positions of the zombies based on the state of the grid and the position of the humans or update the positions of the humans based on the state of the grid and the position of the zombies.